# Demystifying AI

[Article link](https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/focus/cognitive-technologies/what-is-cognitive-technology.html)

The first steps in demystifying AI are 
  * defining the term 
  * outlining its history
  * describing some of the core technologies underlying it.

A useful definition of AI is the theory and development of computer systems able to perform tasks that normally require human intelligence.   
Examples include tasks such as visual perception, speech recognition, decision making under uncertainty, learning, and translation between languages.

Defining AI in terms of the tasks humans do, rather than how humans think, allows us to discuss its practical applications today,   
well before science arrives at a definitive understanding of the neurological mechanisms of intelligence.

### Catalysts of Progress
**Moore’s Law**     
The relentless increase in computing power available at a given price and size, sometimes known as Moore’s Law after Intel cofounder Gordon Moore, has benefited all forms of computing, including the types AI researchers use. Advanced system designs that might have worked in principle were in practice off limits just a few years ago because they required computer power that was cost-prohibitive or just didn’t exist. 

Today, the power necessary to implement these designs is readily available. A dramatic illustration: The current generation of microprocessors delivers 4 million times the performance of the first single-chip microprocessor introduced in 1971.

**Big data**   
Thanks in part to the Internet, social media, mobile devices, and low-cost sensors, the volume of data in the world is increasing rapidly. Growing understanding of the potential value of this data has led to the development of new techniques for managing and analyzing very large data sets. Big data has been a boon to the development of AI. 

The reason is that some AI techniques use statistical models for reasoning probabilistically about data such as images, text, or speech. These models can be improved, or “trained,” by exposing them to large sets of data, which are now more readily available than ever.

**The Internet and the Cloud**   
Closely related to the big data phenomenon, the Internet and cloud computing can be credited with advances in AI for two reasons. First, they make available vast amounts of data and information to any Internet-connected computing device. This has helped propel work on AI approaches that require large data sets. Second, they have provided a way for humans to collaborate—sometimes explicitly and at other times implicitly—in helping to train AI systems.

### Cognitive Technologies
**Computer Vision** refers to the ability of computers to identify objects, scenes, and activities in images.   
Computer vision technology uses sequences of imaging-processing operations and other techniques to decompose the task of analyzing images into manageable pieces.   
There are techniques for detecting the edges and textures of objects in an image.

**Machine Learning** refers to the ability of computer systems to improve their performance by exposure to data without the need to follow explicitly programmed instructions.   
At its core, machine learning is the process of automatically discovering patterns in data. Once discovered, the pattern can be used to make predictions.

**Natural Language Processing** refers to the ability of computers to work with text the way humans do, for instance, extracting meaning from text or even generating text that is readable, stylistically natural, and grammatically correct.   
A natural language processing system doesn’t understand text the way humans do, but it can manipulate text in sophisticated ways, such as automatically identifying all of the people and places mentioned in a document; identifying the main topic of a document; or extracting and tabulating the terms and conditions in a stack of human-readable contracts.

**Robotics** by integrating cognitive technologies such as computer vision and automated planning with tiny, high-performance sensors, actuators, and cleverly designed hardware, has given rise to a new generation of robots that can work alongside people and flexibly perform many different tasks in unpredictable environments.




