# What does an ML Engineer do?
[Article Link](https://medium.com/@tomaszdudek/but-what-is-this-machine-learning-engineer-actually-doing-18464d5c699)

Machine Learning Engineer - A full stack developer of the data science.

A person called machine learning engineer:
* asserts that all production tasks are working properly in terms of actual execution and scheduling
* abuses machine learning libraries to their extremes, often adding new functionalities
* ensures that data science code is maintainable, scalable and debuggable
* automates and abstracts away different repeatable routines that are present in most machine learning tasks
* brings the best software development practices to the data science team and helps them speed up their work
* chooses best operational architecture together with devops team
* looks constantly for performance improvement and decides which ML technologies will be used in production environment

**Data scientists** usually come from different background than software engineers. They do not necessarily make great programmers. In fact, they never intended to be them — for a data scientist coding is merely just a means to solve the current puzzle. And nothing more.

On the other hand **Software engineers** are quite reserved when it comes to machine learning. The whole concept is rather weird from their perspective, especially when the majority of so called models their data science team creates are short, hacky scripts with strange method calls and unreadable code in unfamiliar language. Where are all the design patterns? Where is the clean code? Where is logging or monitoring? Why is the code not reusable? Shouldn’t the code solving such a complex problem be more than two hundred lines long? It is a very ugly script that only one person can understand! Is it even programming anymore?

With this conflict arising, a need was born. A need for a person that would reunite two warring parties. One being fluent just enough in both fields to get the product up and running.

Yet, somebody has to glue all the “data science” and “software” parts together. Take the trained model and make it work on quality production environment. Schedule batch jobs recalculating insight tables. Serve model in real time and monitor its performance in the wild. And this is the exact area in which machine learning engineer shines.

The majority of your code is not tied to machine learning. In fact, the code regarding it usually takes just a few percents of your entire codebase

As a machine learning engineer you prepare your applications for such events. You provide the logging and monitoring pipelines not only around machine learning tasks but also inside them. You try to preserve all the information so it is possible to answer a very important questions: What is the cause of bad model’s performance? Since when does it happen?

DevOps -- Software Engineers -- Machine Learning Engineers -- Data Scientists -- Business Analysts

Your data science team is always full of ideas. You have to make sure that no technology is limiting them. As good and customizable as the current ML frameworks are, sooner or later your teammates will have an intriguing use case that is not achievable with any of them. Well, not with standard APIs. But when you dig into their internals, tweak them a little and mix in another library or two, you make it possible. You abuse the frameworks and use them to their full potential. That requires both extensive programming and machine learning knowledge, something that is quite unique to your role in the team.

By seeing your product on the bigger picture and knowing it well from both engineering, business and science sides, you are often the only person that has the opportunity to spot the potential area of improvement.

What is always conveniently omitted is the fact that those cool things also happen to be not widely used things.   
And when the technology is new all you are left with is poor documentation and a bunch of blog posts.

You must organize your learning resources well and have a constant stream of news flowing in. And also accept the fact that being the jack of all trades has its cons, because you will probably never have a very deep knowledge in any of your areas. The imposter syndrome kicks in very hard. And often.



